.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/maintainer_pull_request_template.md, before:

## PR Overview
**This PR will address the following Issue/Feature:**

**This PR will result in the following new package version:**
<!--- Please add details around your decision for breaking vs non-breaking version upgrade. If this is a breaking change, were backwards-compatible options explored? -->

**Please provide the finalized CHANGELOG entry which details the relevant changes included in this PR:**
<!--- Copy/paste the CHANGELOG for this version below. -->

## PR Checklist
### Basic Validation
Please acknowledge that you have successfully performed the following commands locally:
- [ ] dbt run –full-refresh && dbt test
- [ ] dbt run (if incremental models are present) && dbt test

Before marking this PR as "ready for review" the following have been applied:
- [ ] The appropriate issue has been linked, tagged, and properly assigned
- [ ] All necessary documentation and version upgrades have been applied
- [ ] docs were regenerated (unless this PR does not include any code or yml updates)
- [ ] BuildKite integration tests are passing
- [ ] Detailed validation steps have been provided below

### Detailed Validation
Please share any and all of your validation steps:
<!--- Provide the steps you took to validate your changes below. -->

### If you had to summarize this PR in an emoji, which would it be?
<!--- For a complete list of markdown compatible emojis check our this git repo (https://gist.github.com/rxaviers/7360908)  --> 
:dancer:

Commit message:

Bugfix/description yml key (#202)
* Fix erroneous key (#201)

* Fix erroneous key

* Update CHANGELOG and version

* polish up

* polish

* add second pr link to changelog

---------

Co-authored-by: Raphael Varieras <raphael@zello.com>

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/maintainer_pull_request_template.md, after:

<!--
Pre-Submission Reminders  
Before marking this PR as "ready for review":

- `dbt run --full-refresh && dbt test`  
- `dbt run` && `dbt test` (if incremental models are present)  
- The related issue is linked, tagged, and appropriately assigned  
- Documentation and version updates are included, if applicable  
- `docs` have been regenerated (unless there are no code or YAML changes)  
- BuildKite integration tests are passing
-->

## PR Overview 
**Package version introduced in this PR:** 
 
**This PR addresses the following Issue/Feature(s):**
<!-- Add Issue # or internal ticket reference -->

**Summary of changes:**  
<!-- 1-2 sentences describing PR changes. -->


### Submission Checklist  
- [ ] Alignment meeting with the reviewer (if needed)  
  - [ ] Timeline and validation requirements discussed  
- [ ] Provide validation details:  
  - [ ] **Validation Steps:** Check for unintentional effects (e.g., add/run consistency & integrity tests)
  - [ ] **Testing Instructions:** Confirm the change addresses the issue(s)
  - [ ] **Focus Areas:** Complex logic or queries that need extra attention  

### Changelog  
<!-- Recommend drafting changelog notes, then refining via ChatGPT using:  
"Draft a changelog entry based on the following notes." -->
- [ ] Draft changelog for PR  
- [ ] Final changelog for release review
