.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

**Please provide your name and company**

**Link the issue/feature request which this PR is meant to address**
<!--- If an issue was not created, please create one first so we may discuss the PR prior to opening one. -->

**Detail what changes this PR introduces and how this addresses the issue/feature request linked above.**

**How did you validate the changes introduced within this PR?**

**Which warehouse did you use to develop these changes?**

**Did you update the CHANGELOG?**
<!--- Please update the new package version’s CHANGELOG entry detailing the changes included in this PR. -->
<!--- To select a checkbox you simply need to add an "x" with no spaces between the brackets (eg. [x] Yes). -->
- [ ] Yes

**Did you update the dbt_project.yml files with the version upgrade (please leverage standard semantic versioning)? (In both your main project and integration_tests)**
<!--- The dbt_project.yml and the integration_tests/dbt_project.yml files contain the version number. Be sure to upgrade it accordingly -->
<!--- To select a checkbox you simply need to add an "x" with no spaces between the brackets (eg. [x] Yes). -->
- [ ] Yes

**Provide an emoji that best describes your current mood**
<!--- For a complete list of markdown compatible emojis check our this git repo (https://gist.github.com/rxaviers/7360908)  --> 
:dancer:

**Feedback**

We are so excited you decided to contribute to the Fivetran community dbt package! We continue to work to improve the packages and would greatly appreciate your [feedback](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/DQ7K7WW) on our existing dbt packages or what you'd like to see next.

**PR Template** 
- [Community Pull Request Template](?expand=1&template=pull_request_template.md) (default)

- [Maintainer Pull Request Template](?expand=1&template=maintainer_pull_request_template.md) (to be used by maintainers)

Commit message:

Documentation Standard Updates (#166)
* MagicBot/documentation-updates

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Update README.md

Co-authored-by: fivetran-catfritz <111930712+fivetran-catfritz@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: fivetran-catfritz <111930712+fivetran-catfritz@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

**Please provide your name and company**

**Link the issue/feature request which this PR is meant to address**
<!--- If an issue was not created, please create one first so we may discuss the PR prior to opening one. -->

**Detail what changes this PR introduces and how this addresses the issue/feature request linked above.**

**How did you validate the changes introduced within this PR?**

**Which warehouse did you use to develop these changes?**

**Did you update the CHANGELOG?**
<!--- Please update the new package version’s CHANGELOG entry detailing the changes included in this PR. -->
<!--- To select a checkbox you simply need to add an "x" with no spaces between the brackets (eg. [x] Yes). -->
- [ ] Yes

**Did you update the dbt_project.yml files with the version upgrade (please leverage standard semantic versioning)? (In both your main project and integration_tests)**
<!--- The dbt_project.yml and the integration_tests/dbt_project.yml files contain the version number. Be sure to upgrade it accordingly -->
<!--- To select a checkbox you simply need to add an "x" with no spaces between the brackets (eg. [x] Yes). -->
- [ ] Yes

**Typically there are additional maintenance changes required before this will be ready for an upcoming release. Are you comfortable with the Fivetran team making a few commits directly to your branch?**
<!--- If you select Yes this will help expedite your PR in case there are small changes required before approval. We encourage you not to use this branch in a production environment as we may make additional updates.  -->
<!--- If you select No, we will not make any changes directly to your branch and will either communicate any planned changes via the PR thread or will merge your PR into a separate branch so we may make changes without modifying your branch.. -->
- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No

**If you had to summarize this PR in an emoji, which would it be?**
<!--- For a complete list of markdown compatible emojis check our this git repo (https://gist.github.com/rxaviers/7360908)  --> 
:dancer:

**Feedback**

We are so excited you decided to contribute to the Fivetran community dbt package! We continue to work to improve the packages and would greatly appreciate your [feedback](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/DQ7K7WW) on our existing dbt packages or what you'd like to see next.

**PR Template** 
- [Community Pull Request Template](?expand=1&template=pull_request_template.md) (default)

- [Maintainer Pull Request Template](?expand=1&template=maintainer_pull_request_template.md) (to be used by maintainers)
